---
layout: post
title:  "Adding user comments"
date:   2016-11-18 01:33:37
tags:   [development, devops, web]
disqus: true
---


This post is part of an assignment in the course
["1DV022 -- Client-based Web Programming"][1dv022] at Linnaeus
University in Kalmar.

Adding comments to the website
==============================
One part of the assignment is to add the ability for visitors to add comments
to the website.

disqus
------
I've chosen to implement this using [`disqus`][disqus], which is a service that
provides add-ons for websites such as comment sections and advertisements.
A full rundown of their features is available [here][disqus-features].

In order to add functionality provided by `disqus` you need to register for an
account at their website. The add-ons are then added as JavaScript, that is
modified to include configuration variables matching the target website, such
as the site URL and an unique identifier.

In order to modify any settings and moderate comments you need to login to the
`disqus` website using your credentials and from there all kinds of settings
and interaction is presented through a easy to use web GUI.


Jekyll integration
------------------
I wanted to be able to control whether to include the comment field for each
individual post and page. Thanks to the "programmable" templating functionality
_liquid_ that Jekyll provides, this was easily done by simply adding a
key/value-pair to the posts YAML front matter.  Thus `disqus: true` enables
user comments for a post.

The `disqus` code is also kept in a separate file and is inserted based on
whether the variable is set.



[1dv022]: https://coursepress.lnu.se/kurs/klientbaserad-webbprogrammering/
[disqus]: https://disqus.com/
[disqus-features]: https://disqus.com/features/
